I am in Shanghai visiting alibaba's new
retail concept store the name humma not
only is the tektite in expanding into
offline retail but this location is the
first with its own robot restaurant two
robots are actually delivering pretty
much all the food that's why I'll end up
after the shopping experience the Hema
store is growing rapidly in China
opening 65 locations in one year there's
three pillars to its strategy serving as
a place to shop in person a distribution
center for online orders and the
restaurant
it's hoping to define what the future of
retail will look like while I'm checking
this out I might as well grab a basket
see what interests me first thing I
noticed is the pricing system every
price tag has a barcode in which you can
use the humma app to scan the barcode
and then see the price of the item
online you can also see reviews of that
product what's also fascinating is that
even though these price tags look like
they were printouts it's actually a
special technology that can change the
price in real time and that's not all it
even tells you when it was delivered to
the store and where it came from you can
also see a scan of a government
certificate proving for instance if it
was organic
it also shows delivery options if you
decide not to buy it in store I just saw
a lady who works for the store and she
was fulfilling an online order
so using her scanner she had a bag she
would pick the products and then what
was really crazy is instead of walking
across the store to get it where it
needs to go she put it on a conveyor
belt which then took it to the ceiling
to the back area where then it will then
go out for a delivery so essentially now
you're talking about not only a retail
store but also a distribution center and
if you live within three kilometers of a
hummus store you can have delivery of
your groceries within 30 minutes you see
a lot of employees walking around the
store fulfilling orders I understand how
it can maximize efficiency of sourcing
but it creates for a somewhat chaotic
experience too when you have a lot of
people running around a lot of sample
stations throughout the store
fish it
it's like a Costco sample stations
everywhere at one point you ask yourself
why even come to the store then if
everything is online and it's such an
easy experience to just order from an
app well one reason then Chinese
consumers prefer to come in store is for
seafood it's very important for the
Chinese consumer to see firsthand their
seafood to make sure it's fresh alright
so I picked two items that I'm gonna go
check out with one of them is bananas
and then the other one is these Lay's
potato chips Italian red meat flavor why
not try something new there's literally
no traditional cashier at this grocery
store it's not like you have an option
between a cashier and self checkout so
if you're looking for that human
interaction go somewhere else
using the Hama app which is connected to
Holly pay the consumers will swipe their
phone in front of the scanner and that's
pretty much it there's also the option
to pay using your face too and now let
me try those chips it's actually a very
subtle taste it's not too strong
surprisingly now it's time to try the
robot restaurant to get a table here and
do check-in at a kiosk you guessed it
using the app it's a connected to your
identity your name everything you've
bought in the past and of course your
wallet from there you get assigned a
table once you're assigned a table you
scan the barcode at the table and then
from there you can just start placing
your order on the humma app so you're
not waiting for anyone to come take your
order there's no pen and paper any of
that in fact you really have no
interaction with with a staff member and
then from there the robots deliver your
food and and you've already paid all
within the same out
Alibaba leveraged its existing
technology from the e-commerce automated
warehouses to power these new robot
restaurants it's really an entire
ecosystem of robots that are working
together pretty well I have yet to see a
collision even the tablet at the table
in a way is obsolete the only thing the
tablet can really do is entertain you
there's games which your phone probably
has you can call for a server if you
need you can use the tablet for that
and then there's also a demo of how the
robots work as well
the robots can't handle everything
though for complicated dishes like soups
that'll require a human server
[Music]